ZGB_swiss_civil_code
================

*English is not an official language of the Swiss Confederation. This
translation is provided for information purposes only and has no legal
force*.

### Note: 80 et seqq. Zivilgesetzbuch (ZGB – Swiss Civil Code) provides the legal framework for foundations in Switzerland. According to Art. 80 ZGB the formation of a foundation requires assets being endowed for a specific purpose.

## Art. 80

A foundation is established by the endowment of assets for a particular
purpose.

## Art. 81

1.  A foundation may be created by public deed or by testamentary
    disposition.

2.  The foundation is entered in the commercial register based on its
    charter and, as the case may be, in accordance with any directions
    issued by the supervisory authority, and the entry must indicate the
    members of the board of trustees.

3.  The probate authority shall inform the commercial registrar of the
    creation of the foundation by testamentary disposition.

## Art. 82

A foundation may be challenged by the founder’s heirs or creditors in
the same manner as a gift.

## Art. 83

The foundation charter shall stipulate the foundation’s governing bodies
and the manner in which it is to be administered.

### Art. 83a

1.  The supreme governing body of the foundation shall maintain its
    business ledgers. The provisions of the Code of Obligations15 on
    commercial bookkeeping and accounting apply mutatis mutandis.

### Art. 83b

1.  The board of trustees shall appoint external auditors.

2.  The supervisory authority may exempt a foundation from the duty to
    appoint external auditors. The Federal Council determines the
    conditions for such exemption.

3.  Where there are no special provisions for foundations, the
    provisions of the Code of Obligations (SR 220) on external auditors
    for public limited companies apply mutatis mutandis.

4.  **If the foundation has a duty to carry out a limited audit, the
    supervisory authority may require a full audit where necessary for a
    reliable assessment of the foundation’s financial situation**.

### Art. 83c

The external auditors must provide the supervisory authority with a copy
of the audit report and all important communications with the
foundation.

### Art. 83d

If the planned system of organisation proves inadequate, if the
foundation lacks one of the prescribed governing bodies or one such body
is **not lawfully constituted**, or if the foundation is no longer
legally domiciled at its seat, the supervisory authority must take the
necessary measures. In particular it may:

1.  set a time limit within which the foundation must restore the
    legally required situation; or

2.  appoint the body which is lacking or an administrator.

In the event that the foundation is unable to organise itself
effectively, the supervisory authority shall transfer its assets to
another foundation with as similar objects as possible.

3.  The foundation bears the cost of such measures. The supervisory
    authority may require the foundation to make an advance payment to
    the persons appointed.

4.  For good cause, the foundation may request the supervisory authority
    to remove persons whom it has appointed.

## Art. 84

1.  Foundations are supervised by the state authority (Confederation,
    canton, commune) to which they are assigned. The cantons may subject
    foundations at communal level to supervision at cantonal level.

2.  **The supervisory authority must ensure that the foundation’s assets
    are used for their declared purpose**.

### Art. 84a

1.  **Where there are grounds for concern that the foundation is
    overindebted or will no longer be able to meet its obligations in
    the longer term, its board of trustees must draw up an interim
    balance sheet at liquidation values and submit it to the external
    auditors. If the foundation has no external auditors, the board of
    trustees must submit the interim balance sheet to the supervisory
    authority**.

2.  If the external auditors establish that the foundation is
    overindebted or will no longer be able to meet its obligations in
    the longer term, it must submit the interim balance sheet to the
    supervisory authority.

3.  The supervisory authority shall direct the board of trustees to take
    the necessary measures. If it fails to do so, the supervisory
    authority takes such measures itself.

4.  If necessary, the supervisory authority shall take legal enforcement
    measures;the provisions of company law on commencement or deferral
    of compulsory dissolution apply mutatis mutandis.

## Art. 85

At the request of the supervisory authority and having heard the board
of trustees, the competent federal or cantonal authority may modify the
foundation’s organisation where such a step is urgently required in
order to preserve the foundation’s assets or safeguard the pursuit of
its objects.

## Art. 86

1.  At the request of the supervisory authority or the board of
    trustees, the competent federal or cantonal authority may amend the
    objects of the foundation where the original objects have altered in
    significance or effect to such an extent that the foundation has
    plainly become estranged from the founder’s intentions.

2.  Subject to the same requirements, conditions that are detrimental to
    the objects of the foundation may be revoked or amended.

### Art. 86a

1.  The competent federal or cantonal authority shall amend the objects
    of the foundation at the founder’s request or in accordance with his
    or her testamentary disposition, provided that the charter reserves
    the right to amend the objects and that at least ten years have
    elapsed since the foundation was established or since the last
    amendment requested by the founder.

2.  Where the foundation pursues public or charitable objects within the
    meaning of Art. 56 lit. g of the Federal Act of 14 December 1990 on
    Direct Federal Taxation, such new objects must likewise be public or
    charitable.

3.  The right to amend a foundation’s objects is neither transferable
    nor heritable. If the founder is a legal entity, the right
    extinguishes at the latest 20 years after the establishment of the
    foundation.

4.  Joint founders may only jointly request an amendment of the
    foundation’s objects.

5.  The probate authority shall inform the competent authority of any
    testamentary disposition concerning the amendment of the
    foundation’s objects.

### Art. 86b

Having heard the board of trustees, the supervisory authority may make
minor amendments to the foundation charter provided these are
objectively justified and do not impair the rights of any third party.

\##Art. 87

1.  Family and ecclesiastical foundations are not subject to
    supervision, unless otherwise provided by public law.

1bis. They are exempt from the duty to appoint external auditors.29

2.  Private law disputes are decided by the courts.

## Art. 88

The competent federal or cantonal authority shall dissolve the
foundation on application or of its own accord if:

1.  its objects have become unattainable and the foundation cannot be
    maintained by modifying its charter; or

2.  its objects have become unlawful or immoral.

Family and ecclesiastical foundations shall be dissolved by court order.

## Art. 89

1.  **Any interested party** may file an application or bring an action
    for the dissolution of a foundation.
2.  Dissolution must be reported to the commercial registrar so that the
    entry may be deleted.

[**Source**:](https://legislationline.org/sites/default/files/documents/e6/SWITZ_civil%20code_excerpts.pdf)

